---
title: Cold Feet
layout: post
author: Ned Presnall
source-id: 1xFj0QI6YrDD-Ombm2U4reddaoBnXzNK09LfxigJksJ4
published: true
permalink: /reflections/cold-feet/
tag: reflections
---
A client of mine (let's call him David) recently returned from completing an elite professional degree. He had also achieved more than a year of sobriety. When David first got sober, I don't think either of us imagined him coming so far in such a short time. He had been in treatment for several months already, and although he'd had some periods of sobriety, he had suffered a severe relapse. He came to clinic suffering from psychotic symptoms and an infected abscess from IV drug use. We almost never discharge people for using drugs or alcohol (that's like discharging someone with hear disease for having a high blood pressure). But when it is clear that someone is getting worse, not better, we do require them to enroll in a higher level of care. When our medical director and I met with David, he refused to enter residential treatment. He said he'd already been to the best residential treatment centers and they hadn't helped him. We told him that acute illness required acute care (no matter how many times) and that we could not longer offer ineffective treatment.

On our way out of the medical director's office, I invited David into mine. I am a glutton for punishment and wanted to make one last plea. Instead, David made his plea: "Give me one more week. I will stop using. If I don't, I will go to residential." Although there had already been several "one last week"s in this relapse, David had never agreed to such a clear contingency. I told him: "Sure. I'll see you at our regular time next week." The rest, as they say, is history. 

In his prior attempts to get well, David, had avoided 12-step participation. He suffered from fairly severe social anxiety and stuck to treatment meetings despite frequent recommendations that he engage a 12-step program. This time around, he overcame his reluctance and began to attend 12-step meetings with fellow clients in treatment. Eventually, he got a sponsor, and when he moved to finish his professional degree, he immediately found a home group, attended multiple groups per week, and continued working the steps.

It is always gratifying to celebrate success in the world of addiction treatment.  

